Guide to notify users when ssa is approved or declined (#2269)
port-labs/port-docs: docs/guides/all/notify-users-upon-approval-of-action.md

---
displayed_sidebar: null
description: Learn how to automatically notify users in Slack when their self-service actions in Port are approved or declined
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Notify users upon approval of self-service actions

This guide shows how to build an automation in Port that sends Slack notifications to users when their self-service actions are **approved** or **declined**. This workflow ensures transparency and closes the feedback loop after a team member submits a request.

## Use cases
- Automatically inform users when their actions are approved or rejected.
- Reduce manual follow-ups and delays by streamlining communication.

## Prerequisites

- Complete the [onboarding process](/getting-started/overview).
- You have access to Slack developers page and have created a Slack webhook URL. Follow the steps in the [Slack Incoming Webhooks Guide](https://api.slack.com/messaging/webhooks) to create a webhook URL.

## Set up action

> For this tutorial, we will use the existing `Service` blueprint that comes with Port’s onboarding flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide, we will use the `Service` blueprint that is created by default during the onboarding process.
```

---
displayed_sidebar: null
description: Learn how to automatically notify users in Slack when their self-service actions in Port are approved or declined
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

> # Approval Notifications for Self-Service Actions

Reviewer: lets align the title here and the title on the guide card, they should be the same

This guide shows how to build an automation in Port that sends Slack notifications to users when their self-service actions are **approved** or **declined**. This workflow ensures transparency and closes the feedback loop after a team member submits a request.

## Use cases
- Automatically inform users when their actions are approved or rejected.
- Reduce manual follow-ups and delays by streamlining communication.

## Prerequisites

- Complete the [onboarding process](/getting-started/overview).
- You have access to Slack developers page and have created a Slack webhook URL. Follow the steps in the [Slack Incoming Webhooks Guide](https://api.slack.com/messaging/webhooks) to create a webhook URL.

> ## Set up data model

Reviewer: 1. If i understand correctly, there is no data model setup needed here, right? no property to add or anything like that. If that is the case, we can remove this header as it is unnecessary. Let's put a sentence in the beginning of the "Set up action" section that says that we will use the existing service blueprint.
2. Since we mentioned in the prerequisites that onboarding is required, no need to repeat it here.

For this tutorial, we’ll use the `Service` blueprint that comes with Port’s onboarding flow. If you haven’t gone through onboarding yet, [follow the steps here](/getting-started/overview).

## Set up action

> We’ll use an example action that locks service deployment environments — useful during maintenance or peak traffic periods. To introduce approvals, we’ll modify the action to require approval before execution.

Reviewer: avoid using contractions (say we will instead of we'll).
In this case, please use "Here is an example action that..."

      "title": "{{ .entity.title }}",
      "properties": {
        "{{ if .inputs.environment == 'Production' then 'locked_in_prod' else 'locked_in_test' end }}": true,
        "{{ if .inputs.environment == 'Production' then 'locked_reason_prod' else 'locked_reason_test' end }}": "{{ .inputs.reason }}",
        "trigger_type": "Locked",
        "triggered_environment": "{{ .inputs.environment }}"
      }
    }
  },
  # highlight-next-line
  "requiredApproval": true
}

```
</details>

## Set up automation

Now let’s create an automation that sends a Slack message when the status of the self-service action changes from `WAITING_FOR_APPROVAL` to either `IN_PROGRESS` (approved) or `DECLINED` (declined).

Follow the steps below to configure the automation:

1. Head to the [automation](https://app.getport.io/settings/automations) page.
2. Click on the `+ Automation` button.
3. Copy and paste the following JSON configuration into the editor:

    <details>
    <summary><b>Self service approval notification automation (Click to expand)</b></summary>

    :::tip Configure your Slack environment
    Replace `<SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL>` with your actual Slack webhook URL.

    :::

>     ```json showLineNumbers

Reviewer: the indentation of the snippet here is wrong
